How do I remove a full directory in Linux?

When attempting to remove a directory using a command such as the rmdir command, you may receive a prompt such as "rmdir: 'dir': Directory not empty" and be unable to delete the directory.

To remove a directory that contains other files or directories, use the following command.

rm -r mydir

In the example above, you would replace "mydir" with the name of the directory you want to delete. For example, if the directory was named "files", you would type rm -r files at the prompt.

Executing the above command would delete all files and directories within the directory named in the command. However, it would also present a prompt for approval to delete each of the files. If you don't want to receive a prompt for each file, use the following command instead.

rm -rf mydir

In the above example, the "mydir" directory, along with all files and directories within that directory, would be deleted with no prompt or message.
Additional information

    See the rm and rmdir commands for further information about each of these commands and other available switches.


        Was this page useful? YesNo
            Feedback
            E-mail
            Share
            Print

Search

            Recently added pages
            How to create a page border in Microsoft Word
            How to create a border around a paragraph or other text in Word
            How to add, select, and modify the header in Microsoft Word
            How to add, select, and modify the footer in Microsoft Word
            How to insert the date and time in Microsoft Word
            View all recent updates
            Useful links
            About Computer Hope
            Site Map
            Forum
            Contact Us
            How to Help
            Top 10 pages
            Follow us
            Facebook

            Twitter

            Google+

            Pinterest

            YouTube

            RSS

© 2015 Computer Hope Legal Disclaimer - Privacy Statement
