

Debian uses tasksel for installing software for a specific system. The command gives you some information:

> tasksel --list-tasks
i desktop       Graphical desktop environment
u web-server    Web server
u print-server  Print server
u dns-server    DNS server
u file-server   File server
u mail-server   Mail server
u database-server       SQL database
u ssh-server    SSH server
u laptop        Laptop
u manual        manual package selection

The command above lists all tasks known to tasksel. The line desktop should print an i in front. If that is the case you can have a look at all packages which this task usually installs:

> tasksel --task-packages desktop
twm
eject
openoffice.org
xserver-xorg-video-all
cups-client
…

On my system the command outputs 36 packages. You can uninstall them with the following command:

> apt-get purge $(tasksel --task-packages desktop)

This takes the list of packages (output of tasksel) and feeds it into the purge command of apt-get. Now apt-get tells you what it wants to deinstall. If you confirm it everything will be purged from your system.
shareimprove this answer
	
answered Nov 21 '12 at 21:53
qbi
929826
	
1 	 
	
Hm, what do you make of this, with tasksel --task-packages desktop I only get task-desktop? But I have some of those packages (e.g., twm). – Emanuel Berg Nov 21 '12 at 22:55
1 	 
	
What is the output of tasksel --list-tasks | grep "^i"? Is the package desktop-base installed? – qbi Nov 22 '12 at 21:03
   	 
	
tasksel --list-tasks | grep "^i" doesn't give my anything: I have only u lines for tasksel --list-tasks, including u desktop Debian desktop environment. aptitude show desktop-base says that package (desktop-base) is installed, though. Are those related? I'm not sure what to make of this. – Emanuel Berg Nov 22 '12 at 22:21
1 	 
	
This answer partially worked for me, but I also had to: dpkg --get-selections (showed me that I had xserver packages installed), apt-get purge xserver-* (delete all the xserver packages). – Daniel Bank Oct 28 '15 at 16:17
add a comment
